Description

For more than 20 years, Globeleq has been a long-term investor, developer, owner and operator of diversified power projects in Africa, where the company is one of the largest Independent Power Producers. With nearly 1,800MW of generation capacity in operation across 17 power plants in 7 countries, 485MW of new power projects in construction and >2,000MW in development, Globeleq is one of the largest independent power producers solely focused in Africa. Globeleq is 70% owned by British International Investment and 30% by Norfund, the development finance institutions of the UK and Norway, and has a proven track record for supporting the ongoing development of the African power sector.
Globeleq’s various generation technologies include gas, wind, solar PV, battery energy storage (BESS), and geothermal. The company is also actively pursuing new opportunities which are emerging from the energy transition.
The primary purpose of the role will be to support the Group Cyber Security Manager with operational security support. The Cyber Security Analyst will utilise their knowledge of threats and vulnerabilities to operate cyber defence systems against a range of cybersecurity concerns using the Microsoft security suite of products.
The role is technical and will be based in Cape Town, South Africa.

Key Responsibilities

Threat Detection and Monitoring
Log analysis – Review system logs for suspicious activity. Microsoft Sentinel and Defender XDR platforms.
Threat Hunting – Proactively search for hidden cyber threats. KQL.
Incident Response
Investigate and respond to cyber incidents alerted by the Cyber Defence Centre and SIEM platform.
Work with internal IT and OT teams to respond to, remediate, and recover from cyber incidents.
Document incident response scenarios.
Security Hardening
Drive remediation of security vulnerabilities and misconfiguration with IT and OT teams.
Perform access reviews, dormant and unauthorised device reviews, and drive remediation.
Cyber Security Assessments
Conduct risk assessments and document action plans in risk registers.
Facilitate risk response activities and document outcomes.
Report on non-compliance.
Facilitate third-party security reviews.
Security Awareness
Conduct phishing and other security-related simulations.
Perform role-based security awareness.
Drive remedial training activities.
Red Teaming
Maintain the red-team platform.
Conduct attack simulations.
Drive remediation with the blue team and IT teams.
Reporting and Processes
Document security processes and procedures.
Produce weekly, monthly and quarterly security reports for management.


Skills and Competencies

Good verbal communication, able to communicate technical information with other technical teams.
Good written communication, including being able to write clear, concise emails and reports.
Willingness to learn.
Proactive attitude.
Able to work in a multicultural context.
Able to influence others without line authority.
Good analytical and problem-solving ability, with a solutions-focused approach
Good facilitation skills and the ability to coordinate with others to achieve objectives
Able to work well under occasional high stress/high-risk situations.
Able to handle multiple tasks, prioritise work and work effectively under limited supervision.

Experience & Qualifications

The following experience and qualifications are considered minimum requirements.
2+ years’ experience in a security analyst or operations role with hands-on experience with the Microsoft security suite of products.
Any one of the following: CompTIA Security +, Certified in Cybersecurity (CC) – ISC², ISACA Certified Cybersecurity Operations Analyst™ (CCOA™) or
Code B driver’s license.

The following experience and qualifications would be considered an advantage to an applicant.
Microsoft Certified: Security Operations Analyst Associate (SC-200)
SSCP – Systems Security Certified Practitioner - ISC²
Certified as competent in CompTIA Cyber Security Analyst (CySA) or EC-Council Certified Network Defender (EC-CND).
Experience with Defender XDR, Intune, and Red Team platforms.
Experience with the Knowbe4 security awareness platform.
Experience performing risk assessments.
Experience conducting third-party risk assessments.
Experience with Operational Technology environments.

About Globeleq
We develop, own and operate power plants utilising various technologies across the African continent. With many years of international industry experience, the support of committed shareholders, and long-standing project, technology, finance and government partnerships, we have the financial strength, management and operational expertise to power Africa to realise its potential.